[Music]
pardon me
you have a jellyfish in your throat what
should you do well first I'd you know
spit it out then add a little peanut
butter you're probably at the beach so
your peanut butter and jelly fish will
land in the sand which makes a great
lunch hey don't blame me
send your complaints to the writer I
thought it was a great fun myself but
seriously I'm sure it was an accident
even if you swallowed mr. jelly to
protect them from a hungry seagull or
because you wanted to impress a girl
that won't work by the way gulping it
down is a really bad idea for both of
you get help immediately talk to a
lifeguard or call an ambulance even
common jellyfish can make you really
sick and all jellyfish have stingers you
might not think so because in some the
stingers are too short to pierce human
skin those ones won't hurt us that is
unless you swallow them the sensitive
membranes inside your mouth and lining
of your throat are thinner and therefore
easier to pierce than your epidermis
that's the tougher skin you wear on the
outside getting stung or sick is bad
news for you but being swallowed is even
worse for mr. jelly it's dark in there
he's terrified he's spineless after all
and he's right to be scared because
although you may be a friendly person
your stomach is definitely a hostile
environment the acids in your stomach
are really uncomfortable for any
creature used to saltwater
conversely saltwater is uncomfortable
for your stomach salts not poisonous
a little salt water won't harm you
almost all of us wallow some sea water
at the beach but it is an emetic that
means if you swallow too much it's
likely to come back up and while this
might be bad manners is probably a good
idea if you just swallowed a jellyfish
so if you do swallow a jellyfish you
should just drink some saltwater right
no you should seek medical attention
sometimes things are worse than they
feel take the case of the lifeguard in
Australia who drank jellyfish water
yeah I know it sounds strange here's how
it happened a teenage lifeguard in
Australia was rushed to the hospital
after he drank a jellyfish and tentacle
infusion it seems someone at the surf
club where he worked had saved a few
tentacles of the extremely venomous box
jellyfish in a jar of water and left it
in the club refrigerator they didn't
intend to drink it they were planning to
donate it to a local lab but the
lifeguard was thirsty he mistook the
jellyfish water for something more
refreshing as soon as he swallowed he
realized his mistake and alerted his
coworkers
good thing too he was already having
trouble breathing by the time the
paramedics arrived yeah so it might
surprise you to learn that right at this
moment lots of people are swallowing
jellyfish on purpose and paying lots of
money for the pleasure all over the
world but especially in Asia jellyfish
are a popular food and not in a peanut
butter sandwich but hey if you try one
tell me how it tastes in fact so many
people swallow jellyfish on purpose that
the world harvests is almost 350 4000
tons of them every year the leading
countries are in Asia where jellyfish
are both fished and farmed in China they
even raise baby jellyfish in ponds and
then move them to the ocean to increase
the jellyfish population but in Japan
they have too much of a good thing still
you can swallow jellyfish there in fact
they'd like you to you see Japan's
waters are teeming with Nomura's
jellyfish these guys weigh in at a
colossal 450 pounds they're so big that
when they get caught in a fisherman's
net they can sink the ship like a sumo
jellyfish you can't swallow an whole but
even if you can only manage one little
bite
Japan will thank you you see the
overabundance of Nomura's jellyfish has
become such a problem that the Japanese
government decided the best way to deal
with them is to have them over for
dinner not to play cards or to dish
about other fish but for dinner
and lunch
and even a really cool dessert we'll
talk about later incredibly despite
having more no Moroz jelly fish than
they can handle
Japan imports an additional five to ten
thousand tons of edible jellyfish every
year they can be eaten in a few
different ways desalinated that means
the salts been removed jellyfish don't
have much flavor but they have hardly
any fat and can add texture to food or
even be served alone if they're dressed
with something really spicy like chili
sauce hmm other popular jellyfish dishes
include jellyfish pickles jellyfish
sushi jellyfish with white rice and
sesame sauce and jellyfish complementing
shredded chicken oh you will look
mahvelous health nuts will even tell you
that jellyfish chips are a fabulous
alternative to the potato kind remember
all this doesn't mean you should just
pop the jellyfish you find on the beach
into your mouth they can make you sick
if not prepared properly so go to
cooking school first and that cool
dessert I mentioned earlier it's cool
for two reasons one what's cooler than
jellyfish ice cream two it's
bioluminescent this bioluminescent
jellyfish ice cream glows in the dark
and when you eat it the pH on your
tongue reacts with the luminescent
proteins to make your tongue glow too
Wow I don't know how it tastes but I
really want to try it unfortunately last
I heard it was selling for about 200
bucks a scoop so it might be a while
maybe you'll buy me some my birthday's
coming up bioluminescence is really cool
and I mean literally cool it's a natural
light without heat as opposed to hot
light like from the Sun or electricity a
lot of sea life especially in the deep
sea where it's super dark have this
amazing feature bioluminescence allows
half of all jellyfish to glow above
ground bioluminescence is rare but you
can find it in fireflies and glowworms
which aren't really worms at all but
that's another video
considering a lot of bigger fish also a
jellyfish as part of their diet it's
comforting to know that if you get in
trouble and a whale swallows you there's
a good chance he'll swallow a
luminescent jellyfish - you'll be able
to read by the light and if you swallow
a luminescent jellyfish your doctor
won't need a flashlight when she looks
down your throat here's another cool
thing about these bright jellies
scientists believe that luminescent
jellyfish use flashes of light to
communicate kind of like an underwater
lighthouse they also use flashes to
attract a mate some jellyfish use
bioluminescence as camouflage instead of
looking like a rock the way stone fish -
the bioluminescence makes these
jellyfish resemble a Sun SPOT when their
predators swim beneath them and look up
they squint against the light and
mistake that glow for the Sun in their
eyes if that doesn't work and this is
really creepy but also cool a jellyfish
can detach one of its flashing tentacles
and leave it behind as it falls through
the water it goes on flashing and lures
the predator away then mr. jelly douses
his own light and sneaks off even cooler
he'll regrow that tentacle in a process
called regeneration you don't have to go
diving to see these glowing guys either
most aquariums have jellyfish and they
often have bioluminescent ones usually
in a slightly darkened room so you can
really appreciate them they come in all
different colors and turn themselves on
and off it's worth the trip people
swallow jellyfish for medicinal and
magical reasons - some think that eating
them will ease muscle pain or improve
memory as for magic well I'm not saying
eating jellyfish powder will make that
girl in math class fall in love with you
but the Chinese have been using dried
jellyfish as a love potion for over
1,700 years so remember if you swallow
mr. jelly and he goes down to your belly
take yourself right to the deli before
you get too smelly and say hi to mr.
Kelly then go home and watch the telly
if you learn something new today then
give the video a like and share it with
a friend and here are some other cool
videos I think you'll enjoy mmm just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the you know what bright side of
life